How many times have you presented something
to your potential customers,
and notice them fidgeting or glancing
around at everything in the room but your presentation.
You could probably tell what they were thinking,
that they're bored or restless,
not by listening to their words,
but by picking up on their nonverbal cues.
In sales, the ability to read body language
is just as important as your listening skills.
Much human communication happens without words.
So how can you read body language in a sales meeting?
The eyes reveal a lot about a potential customer's interest
or level of engagement.
When we're engaged, we hold our gaze longer
on the object of interest.
We might return our eyes repeatedly to that focal point.
But when we're not engaged, we keep looking away,
searching for a distraction.
Without saying a word,
our mouths can also betray our true feelings.
Tightened lips could be a sign of worry or disapproval.
A slight curve upwards on the lips
could indicate agreement or pleasure.
Next, watch a perspective buyers hands.
For instance, are they tapping their fingers on the table?
They could be impatient.
Are their fingers interlaced?
That might signal concern.
Another way to gauge interest is by watching the upper body.
When something piques our interest,
we naturally lean forward.
But if we're feeling dismissive,
we might turn our shoulders
instead of fully facing the other person.
Finally, our lower body can indicate
similar engagement or lack of it.
We tend to stretch our legs forward when we're interested,
but if we're bored or irritated, we might tuck our legs
under the chair.
Reading someone's body language is a good way
to spot tension in a room.
By catching these problems early,
you can create more opportunities to engage in conversation
and handle objections, but communication goes two ways.
So what can you do to make sure you're sending
the right message to your potential buyers?
Let's look at five tips for using body language in sales.
First, open your arms.
A wide open stance makes you more approachable.
When you cross your arms or hide your hands
behind your back, you appear more aloof.
Second, make just enough eye contact.
Too little and it can seem like you're not engaged,
but hold that contact for too long,
over five seconds, and it can make others uncomfortable.
Next, bridge the gap.
Physical proximity speaks volumes.
The closer we get to someone, the more we can bond.
In a professional context,
it can be uncomfortable to get too close.
So respect that personal space of about four feet,
but try not to stand all the way
on the other side of the room,
while you're trying to form a personal connection.
Next, use your hands.
Salespeople who use hand gestures
keep audiences more engaged
than those who remain still and unmoving.
Movement makes whatever you're saying more dynamic.
And finally, nod and smile often.
When we nod along to what someone is saying,
we encourage that person to keep speaking
and communicate that we're listening attentively.
Smiling also helps to put the other person at ease.
Thinking about all these details
might feel overwhelming at first,
but with practice, you'll soon learn to see
what people are sharing without using words.
Body language dominates communication.
Salespeople who listen with their eyes
and ears will truly connect with customers.